(dramatic music)
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
- You guys ready for this?
I wanna introduce you
to Sergeant Furry,
she's gonna be helping us,
she's gonna be the one
taking you into jail today.
I bet you know the
Sheriff's office,
and we trust her
on this project.
- In phase one we brought
participants in individually.
It's hard to sneak
people into jail,
so we've learned in Phase Two,
we're gonna bring
people in in groups.
- Remember, after you pull out
of this car and go to jail,
I don't know you,
you don't know me.
- Thank you.
- Here's your stuff and yours.
- We'll get you guys
changes up back here
and when you come out
you'll be inmates.
Alright you have any jewellery
on you or anything?
- No.
- Watches or nothing like that?
Alright, you guys ready?
- We're bringing them
in under the assumption
that from another county
transfer to mix the cover
stories up and it just helps us
get them in easier.
- Alright.
(shouting)
(buzzing)
- I'm gonna (beep) 'em.
I ain't the one, (beep)
him, (beep) trying to
talk to me like that, I'm
gonna flood this (beep).
- I'm Sheri, I'm 39,
I'm from the northwest.
I'm a mom of three, and I
was a correction officer
in a maximum prison, and
I had to step away from it
when Dustin got deployed
for almost 13 months.
Now my husband's back
from Afghanistan,
and I'm ready to go
back to work, it's time,
it's my time now.
But once you've left
corrections, and it's been more
than a year, you're no
longer just allowed to apply
and get in, so I'm hoping
being in this program,
being a part of it will
get me back into the field,
it'll show myself that I'm
ready to do this again
and no one else in America
is gonna be able to
they're a correction
officer and was an inmate.
(shouting, screaming)
- If you could just
sign in right here.
Sir would you step
right here with me.
Stand right here.
What's your last name?
- Ryan.
- My name is Ryan, I'm 27 years
old, and I'm from Kentucky.
I joined the US army
specifically the army reserves
at 19 as a active duty.
Got good training, learned
a lot about being a medic.
Overall I'm a very logical,
rational, systematic person.
I'm always thinking about
things that most people
couldn't wrap their minds
around even if they tried to,
studied for years.
- First name.
- Kyle.
- How tall are you?
- Five seven.
(shouting)
- Alright man, follow me.
This way, right over there.
- I'm feeling, there's a
little bit of anticipation,
mostly for what
I don't know yet.
There are people weaker than
me, mentally and physically
who've made it and I
will I will prevail as well.
(shouting)
- I think I'm in shock of
how this whole process is,
the only way I can describe
it is like you watch
horror movies where
people, they're possessed.
(shouting)
And I just freaked out.
It became so sad so quick.
- Right here.
- I feel very weak and like
just out of my element.
(screaming)
- Stand right there
where it's open okay?
- I'm most concerned
about giving up control.
I've never had to
do that before.
I'm the officer, I'm the
mom, I run the show at home.
There was always that
question in my mind
as a corrections officer
of, what's it like for them?
I literally have
become just an inmate.
- They don't know that there's
any other participants so,
as far as they're
concerned, they're the only
two people going in, so,
we gotta maintain that
throughout this process.
- Chief Deputy Brad Jones has
been here for about 15 years
in his role as a
number two person
here at the Sheriff's office.
- Chief Jones' gonna bring
in Monalisa and Quintin
under the assumption they
were stopped on the interstate
for out-of-state crimes.
- [Jones] Are you guys ready?
- Ready.
- My name is Quintin, I'm
a retired state policeman,
bounty hunter,
private investigator.
It's extremely important
for me to do this,
because I'm curious to learn
what it's for all the people
that I've brought into
the system, I've arrested.
Probably about a thousand
people in my career.
It's a long career.
- [Jones] How're you feeling?
- I don't have any words
right now, I just, whoa.
I'm ready.
I'm Monalisa and I am
about to go to jail
and quite frankly
I'm scared as (beep).
- [Jones] You ever think
you'd sign up to go to jail?
- No, not at all.
And when I see those
lights and I see you two,
I get creeped out, okay, this
doesn't even feel good at all.
I know you got a smile on
your face and you're nice,
but I kind of feel
creepy, you know?
- Why's that?
- I don't know,
cops make me creepy.
- Some people don't
like the police.
- They make me feel creeped out.
I used to believe
in law enforcement,
I used to really think
that they did their jobs,
but after my daughter went
through her experience
I don't really have the respect
I used to have for them.
She was on the dean's
list when she got arrested
for God's sake, and now
she's a caged animal.
They don't think of her as
anything else but a criminal.
It's like it's like your breath
has been taken away,
it's like you can't
breathe anymore, you can't
think, you can't
focus, you can't
you just can't be.
I feel like this is a personal
journey that I have to take
because my life depends on
it, I am so broken emotionally
from losing my
daughter, I just wanna,
I just need to
understand, it's too much,
that goes on in my head, that
I want to bring to closure.
- We got two pair of
handcuffs for you so--
- Oh, (beep) it's time.
- Yeah it's time.
- Alright put this hand right
here.
- The thing about what
people feel about police
is very circumstance-related.
If their house is broken
into, they love us.
If their children are
arrested, they hate us.
(car starting)
- When I think about her,
I got my fingers crossed
and I'm praying that
nothing happens to her while
I'm in here, because
ultimately this is for her.
And this is for the
people who need to see
a change in the system.
- Trespass,
theft, theft, glove six
validate your bonds,
is not bond, Judge Nuever.
- Pregnant?
- No.
- Feeling suicidal or
thinking of hurting yourself
or anyone else?
- No, just nervous.
- Okay, it's okay, you have
any scars, marks or tattoos?
- No.
- That's it.
- When inmates first come in,
after the booking process,
the first place they go
is the classification.
After meeting Ryan, I'm
a little worried for him.
He's obviously
highly intelligent,
but he's gonna come off
as kind of condescending
to other inmates, maybe
a little arrogant.
I hope Ryan listens to the
training that we provided for
him goes in, does what he's
told and comes back out
and gives us
valuable information.
(chuckling)
- I thought it would be good
to have my last name be Ryan
so I would answer to it,
so then Kyle Ryan sounded
very simple and I'll
just tell people that my
friends call me Ryan.
It will be interesting
to see how much of myself
truly changes rather than the
image that I'm putting on.
(slow music)
(chatting)
- When I went up there to
the classification pod,
I sit underneath the stairs
because you see people
coming from in front of
you and to the left of you
and you're less likely
to get ambushed.
The real strategy is to
become one of the crowd.
The strange thing about
jail is that it is stranger
than I though it was gonna be.
It's like an odd summer camp
for people who don't fit into
society, they are somebody here.
(chatting)
And out there they are not.
(shouting)
(beeping)
(shouting, chatting)
- As we're walking
towards classification,
like it hits me that
I'm really in here.
I didn't realize how
real it was gonna be.
My mind was racing, I felt
like I was gonna throw up.
- Name?
Go ahead, what's your name?
- When we get in there
and they close the door
and we look around,
there's no guard and you're
all by yourself with
all these people.
Every training I've ever had
in my life went out the door.
Excuse me.
- Need help hon?
- Yeah, this is my bed,
it's all jacked up girl.
- This is not my sleep
number, grab your (beep)
- It is the most wretched,
foul, dirty, disease-infested
and it was not what I think
I expected it to be like.
And it like hit me, you know I
don't think I can handle this.
- Staples, I see you moving.
(chatting)
- I'm not scared, nervous
or worried at all.
- Step up here please.
- I understand where I'm putting
the people I incarcerate.
What the lack of understanding
is is more how they
feel about things,
is that I'm lacking.
- Go have a seat,
DT1 over there.
- It's a rare opportunity
to spend time in jail
without being charged.
Basically I'm a student of
corrections and I hope to learn
the inner workings of the
facility from the inside.
(shouting)
- Have you ever been
in jail before mam?
- No.
- No so you've never been patted
down or anything like that?
- No.
- This is the worst part, okay?
- This is a place where
I have no control.
I can't understand anything.
- Were gonna put you in
here, and what they'll do
they're gonna call you out
fingerprint you, book you in.
- CO's, they've been given
dominion over human life,
and they do things
to these inmates that you know
are just absolutely inhumane.
- Mam, we don't do anything
in a hurry here, okay?
- I'm very concerned
about what my experience
is gonna be like with the CO's.
I don't have any
respect for CO's.
- I don't give a (beep) about
nothing of this (beep),
you (beep) nothing to me.
You ain't nothing to me.
I don't give a (beep)
about none of it.
- I don't even have no
respect for the system.
(shouting)
But I do know that's my enemy.
- As a corrections
officer, I've had training
on how to keep
people in, and now
I'm on the other side and I
don't know how you prepare
for something like that.
I feel very weak and like just
exhausted and out of my element.
- In Phase One F-Pod was made
up mostly of older inmates.
This time around, F-Pod
is completely different.
They're a younger, volatile
and a more unpredictable group.
(laughing)
- This is my home-away-from-home
I guess you can say now.
- We got all these new
girls and they're all young
and loud and rude. (laughing)
- Right here.
- I don't know.
- Sarah, hurry up.
- Raymond, Sheri, Raymond.
- Sharia Raymond.
- Walking into F-Pod and all
you can see is just girls,
and it seems like there's
a hundred of them,
and they're just staring at you.
You can tell that they're
watching every move you make.
- When you go in, try to at
all cost, get a bottom cell.
We've got a lot better
coverage on you.
Do whatever you can without
drawing too much attention
on you, to get in a bottom tier.
- In the back of my head I can
remember getting my training
and the Captain's like, "You
need to be on the bottom floor"
Okay, well you're not in
there and I've got women
that are twice my size telling
me you are going upstairs.
- We've never had a participant
take a cell on the top tier.
The inmates on the top
tier are more veteran,
and seem to be
the troublemakers.
They know how the system works,
and they can be a real
threat to first-timers.
Having a participant go to the
top tier is really dangerous.
(shouting)
(arguing)
- I went upstairs and there
was only one area for me to go
and it was with a
girl named Mackenzie.
- And now I'm up here
and I'm just saying.
- She's pretty outgoing,
kind of a little spacey.
(aggressive music)
I was glad to have a bunkie
after being in classification,
not having anybody talk to
me, however I could tell
she's all just a
ball of just craziness.
It's clear that this
girl has a drug problem.
I knew right away that I
didn't trust this girl.
I'm keeping my guard
completely up with her.
(laughing)
- When I first came in it
was the most eerie feeling
that I've ever had.
It was awful over there.
That was so bad, and I
just kinda felt disgusted,
you know because
it was so nasty.
This is so disgusting, I have
never seen anything like that,
that was like some
stuff that you would see
in a foreign country, I
would have never expected
American jails to look
like that on the inside.
Say it again?
Oh my first few moments in
jail have been a stone-cold gas
honey, if that's what they
say on soul train but,
it's disgusting, that if nothing
else, I'll say disgusting.
You know, I started to
think about my daughter,
and what it felt like
when she walked in
and how was she acting.
I feel like, you know, I can
sense her pain a little bit,
I can sense her fear, I can
sense the feelings that she had.
And it's overwhelming
me a little bit.
(shouting)
- In classification
pod, when I watch people
then the more I thought that
they were just people trying
to fit into a demographic.
(beeping)
And they want to be big,
badass, the alpha male
and the silverback gorilla.
And it's a lot of this
puffery, this chest
chest-pounding
peacocking stuff.
- This is a different world in
here, it's not like out there
this is a different world.
- [Captain] D-Pod's one of
the most active sections.
Usually if we have a
problem in the jail,
it's gonna come from D-Pod.
- Animal came to the herd,
it's almost kill or
be killed for real.
- [Captain] We had a
lot of issues in there
during Phase One, that's
why we need Ryan in there,
but he needs to be careful
'cause a lot of guys
in D-Pod are dangerous.
(chatting, laughing)
- It takes a lot to survive
in a place where you have to
always be on watch,
be paranoid.
Any of the typical
rules of society,
none of those exist in
there, they're all gone,
and you live by the new rules.
And those are the rules
that I have no idea about
and that I'm gonna
have to learn.
(laughing)
At the point where I was
underneath the stairs,
I was literally just listening
and watching everybody.
If you look around, there
is an archetype in there.
Everybody has tattoos,
everybody has a look and a feel
to them when they walk around
and I don't fit that at all.
The average IQ in there
is lower that I'm used to
in say college.
They questioned me rapidly, like
"Who's this?
"Where's that?
"Where's this other thing?
"I've kind of been
there, so prove to me."
I was just having to fire
off a bunch of stuff.
(shouting, beeping)
- So how does it feel
for your first time
in Clark County Jail?
No comment?
- You've got all your
stuff and you go in
and it's like a zoo.
(laughing)
You see like the
cages and the animals.
And you say where
is my place here?
And you try to adjust
to how this works.
Who goes where and what is what.
(chatting)
It's just a learning
process, I'm gonna sit back
and I'm gonna see
how this works.
- Coming from being a
correction officer,
I have to let go of my pride.
On top of being
lost in environment,
I'm lost of who I am right now.
It's hard, I'm used to being
the one calling the shots
and now I'm being
told what to do.
Right now I'm kind
of just holding back,
trying to figure out
what's my next step,
because my whole goal is
just to be able to blend in
and be able to walk
freely through this place
so I've gotta figure
this out and quick.
I've been given my pin
number and inside jail
it's how we call home, you
know, most people memorize it,
I'm old, I'm not memorizing
this number right now,
so I'm keeping it right
down here in my bra.
- Zubit.
- The phone does not work
and I have not made a call
since I got in,
can you let me know
what they can do about that?
Thank you.
The answer is real simple.
We get to it when we get to it.
I mean like, you want
us to respect you,
but you don't respect us,
I just don't get that.
That's for medical emergencies?
How was I supposed to know that?
Why don't they have
a sign that says
"For medical emergencies"?
I mean, I don't have a (beep).
I've never been in jail.
- Monalisa has to be
careful how she acts
around other inmates.
She's already talking too much
and bringing a lot of
attention to herself.
She needs to keep
a lower profile
or she could blow her cover.
- Keeping things in my bra
clearly causes some controversy
'cause people were
portraying that maybe I had
contraband down there.
They make a little short talk
and then it comes right out.
"What do you have in there?
"I know you got something, we
know you're in here for drugs,
"what do you got?"
They've convinced themselves
that I've got heroin
of all things on me,
I am just so in shock.
My mind's like going over and
I can hear them walking around
and I'm like oh my gosh, they
wanna fight me, this is it.
- I have very little
emotional intelligence, and so
I can't tell you know when
people are you know standoffish
about things
I don't look like or
seem like I fit in there,
and I'm also new
so I'm very visible
and it's understandable
they pretty much
think I'm a plant at this point.
So I've got an uphill battle
to convince them otherwise.
- I'm worried about
Ryan blowing his cover.
Once inmates suspect
you as a plant,
it's almost impossible
to check that suspicion.
They're gonna be watching
you all the time.
(shouting, laughing)
- I'm being threatened,
I can hear them saying
what they're gonna do, they're
taunting me and I'm scared.
- If it came down to a fighting,
you though you got
them in a fight,
if I were you I'd much
rather fight in the day room
'cause we have cameras
all over that place.
Whereas in a cell, I can't
tell you're fighting or not.
You know if I got eyes on you or
not.
- What is going on?
- Ashley, Ashley, in the merge.
I'm about to squash you,
Ashley, Ashley, Ashley,
April, let's go.
- The really big girl
Brenda and then like five of the
girls that stay in her pod
were all out there,
They were literally there was no
escaping.
I don't know what's coming,
I don't know what to do.
I'm panicked because
you've got a bunch of girls
who are addicted to drugs,
and think I have drugs on me
and they want them and I don't
know how to defend myself
from the situation, I
don't know what to do.
(laughing)
- One of the most dangerous
places in the jail is behind
the curtain, it blocks the
limited visibility that we have
in the cells and usually that's
where inmates go to fight.
- I'm now an inmate, a number
and there's no outside world.
- What the hell
is going on here?
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org